W-14795609 Connector ACB Configuration (#2478)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: http/1.9/modules/ROOT/pages/http-connector-config-acb.adoc

= Using Anypoint Code Builder to Configure HTTP Connector

include::connectors::partial$configure-acb-connectors-partial.adoc[tag="acb-connector-config-intro"]

== Create a New Integration Project

include::connectors::partial$configure-acb-connectors-partial.adoc[tag="acb-create-integration-project"]

== Add the Connector to Your Integration Project

include::connectors::partial$configure-acb-connectors-partial.adoc[tag="acb-add-connector-to-project"]

[[configuring-http-source]]
== Configure the Source For the Flow

include::connectors::partial$configure-acb-connectors-partial.adoc[tag="acb-configure-source"]

== Add Components to Your Project

include::connectors::partial$configure-acb-connectors-partial.adoc[tag="acb-add-components-to-project"]

[[add-global-config]]

> == Add a Global Configuration

Reviewer: The "Add a Global Configuration" header shows up twice in the build

| URI Settings URL |  URL to send the request to.
| URI Settings Path |  Path for where to send the request. 
|Request Body | Body of the request response message. 
| Request Headers |Headers to include in the response message.
|URI Parameters |URI parameters used to create the request.
| Query Parameters |Query parameters to include in the request.
| Correlations ID | Defines whether to include an outbound correlation ID in the request. 
|===

. Select the *Advanced* tab to configure the following attributes:
+
[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| UI Field | Description 
| Output MIME type |MIME type of the payload this component outputs.
| Parameters |Appends a key-value pair for a reader property to the value of the Output MIME attribute. Multiple key-value pairs are allowed. 
|Output encoding |Encoding of the payload this component outputs.
|Streaming Strategy | This attribute is not currently enabled in the configuration UI. Configure it in the XML editor. See xref:connectors::streaming-strategies.adoc[].
| Follow redirects | Specifies whether or not to follow redirects.

> | Send body mode | Specifies whether the request contains a body. Select *Auto* to specify that the behavior is determined by the defined allowed HTTP methods (GET, HEAD, and OPTIONS do not send a body).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Send body mode | Specifies whether the request contains a body. Select *Auto* to specify that the behavior is determined by the defined allowed HTTP methods (`GET`, `HEAD`, and `OPTIONS` do not send a body).
```

|===
. Select the *Advanced* tab to configure the following attributes: 
+
[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| UI Field | Description 
|Output MIME type | MIME type of the payload this component outputs.
| Parameters |Appends a key-value pair for a reader property to the value of the Output MIME attribute. Multiple key-value pairs are allowed. 
| Output encoding | Encoding of the payload this component outputs.
|Target Variable | Name of the variable that stores the operation's output.
|Target Value |Expression that evaluates the operation's output. The expression outcome is stored in the target variable.
|Error Mappings | This attribute is not currently enabled.
|===

== Configure Authentication for the Connector

The Anypoint Connector for HTTP (HTTP Connector) *Request* operation supports connecting a Mule client app to a service that requires any of the following types of authentication:

* Basic Authentication
* Digest Authentication
* NTLM Authentication
* OAuth2 Authorization Code Grant Type Authentication
* <<oauth2-client-authentication,OAuth2 Client Credentials Grant Type Authentication>>

> [[testing-http-listener-connection]]

Reviewer: linebreak here so the "Test an HTTP Listener Connection" header renders properly

> = Using Anypoint Code Builder to Configure HTTP Connector

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Using Anypoint Code Builder to Configure HTTP Connector 1.9 - Mule 4
```

Author: I'm leaving the connector versions off for ACB because the packaged connectors might not align with the connector version. ugh This is something Duke and I are trying to figure out.

> = Using Anypoint Code Builder to Configure HTTP Connector

Reviewer: not super important but maybe renaming the file to http-connector-acb for consistency

> = Using Anypoint Code Builder to Configure HTTP Connector

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Using Anypoint Code Builder to Configure HTTP Connector - Mule 4
```

. In the *General* tab, configure the following attributes:
+
[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| UI Field | Description 
| Method | To allow all HTTP methods (default), do not define this attribute. To restrict certain methods, specify all allowed HTTP methods, for example, `GET, POST`, as a comma-separated list. 
| URI Settings URL |  URL to send the request to.
| URI Settings Path |  Path for where to send the request. 
|Request Body | Body of the request response message. 
| Request Headers |Headers to include in the response message.
|URI Parameters |URI parameters used to create the request.
| Query Parameters |Query parameters to include in the request.
| Correlations ID | Defines whether to include an outbound correlation ID in the request. 
|===

. Select the *Advanced* tab to configure the following attributes:
+
[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| UI Field | Description 
| Output MIME type |MIME type of the payload this component outputs.
| Parameters |Appends a key-value pair for a reader property to the value of the Output MIME attribute. Multiple key-value pairs are allowed. 
|Output encoding |Encoding of the payload this component outputs.

> |Streaming Strategy | This attribute is not currently enabled in the configuration UI. Configure it in the XML editor. See include:connectors::partial$streaming-strategies.adoc[Streaming Strategies].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Streaming Strategy | This attribute is not currently enabled in the configuration UI. Configure it in the XML editor. See include::connectors::partial$streaming-strategies.adoc[Streaming Strategies].
```

| Follow redirects | Specifies whether or not to follow redirects.
| Send body mode | Specifies whether the request contains a body. Select *Auto* to specify that the behavior is determined by the defined allowed HTTP methods (`GET`, `HEAD`, and `OPTIONS` do not send a body).
| Request streaming mode |Defines whether the request is sent using streaming.
| Response timeout | Specifies the maximum time in milliseconds that the request element blocks the execution of the flow waiting for the HTTP response.
|Response validator | Configures default error handling for the request. This attribute is not currently enabled in the configuration UI. Configure it in the XML editor. See xref:http-documentation.adoc#SuccessStatusCodeValidator[Success Status Code Validator] and xref:http-documentation.adoc#FailureStatusCodeValidator[Failure Status Code Validator].
|Target Variable | Name of the variable on which the operation's output is placed.
|Target Value | An expression that's evaluated against the operation's output. The outcome of that expression is stored in the target variable.
| Error Mappings | This attribute is not currently enabled. 

> |Reconnection Strategy |This attribute is not currently enabled in the configuration UI. Configure it in the XML editor. See xref:http-documentation.adoc#reconnect[Reconnect] and xref:http-documentation.adoc#reconnect[Reconnect Forever]. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Reconnection Strategy |This attribute is not currently enabled in the configuration UI. Configure it in the XML editor. See xref:http-documentation.adoc#reconnect[Reconnect] and xref:http-documentation.adoc#reconnect[Reconnect Forever]. 
```
```suggestion
|Reconnection Strategy |This attribute is not currently enabled in the configuration UI. Configure it in the XML editor. See xref:database-documentation.adoc#reconnect[Reconnect], xref:database-documentation.adoc#reconnect[Reconnect Forever], and <<configuring-reconnection-strategy>>.
```

Reviewer: global change? not sure about this one

= Using Anypoint Code Builder to Configure HTTP Connector

include::connectors::partial$configure-acb-connectors-partial.adoc[tag="individual-connector-config"]

> === Configuring Attributes for the HTTP Listener

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Configure Attributes for the HTTP Listener
```

Reviewer 2: It's confusing, but we use imperative for tasks within a larger task group - unless this section encompasses more than one task?

> The Anypoint Connector for HTTP (HTTP Connector) *Listener* component enables you to set up an HTTP server and trigger flows when receiving HTTP requests.

Reviewer 2: I don't bold connector components/operations. Should I be? 🤔 Oh, I guess so!
https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/display/MTDT/MuleSoft+CX+Writing+Style+Reference#MuleSoftCXWritingStyleReference-boldfont

Author: Yep. It's because the operations are title case and can blend into the surrounding text.

To configure the HTTP *Listener* attributes in the UI:

. Click the *Listener* component on the canvas.
+

> The configuration UI opens.

Reviewer 2: Do you need this?

Author: Nah. Old habits die hard.

> . In the *General* tab, enter the relative path for the path set in the HTTP configuration element in *Path*. See xref:http-listener-ref.adoc#configure-paths[Configure Paths]. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. In the *General* tab, *Path* field, enter the relative path for the path set in the HTTP configuration element. See xref:http-listener-ref.adoc#configure-paths[Configure Paths]. 
```

Reviewer 2: (Not sure if that's what you mean)

. Select the *Advanced* tab to configure the following attributes:
* *Allowed methods*
+

> Comma-separated list of allowed HTTP methods by this listener. To allow all methods, do not define this attribute.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Comma-separated list of HTTP methods allowed by this listener. To allow all methods, don't define this attribute.
```

Reviewer 2: should listener be init cap?

+
* *Response streaming mode*
+
Defines whether or not to use streaming when the response is sent.
+
* *Output MIME type*
+
Defines the format of the response.
+
* *Parameters* 
+

> Add additional parameters for the *Listener*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Adds parameters for the *Listener*.
```

+
* *Output encoding*
+

> Select the encoding to transform the data to.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Selects the encoding to transform the data to.
```

+
* *Streaming Strategy*
+

> This attribute is not currently enabled in the configuration UI. Configure it in the XML editor. See xref:connectors::streaming-strategies.adoc[]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This attribute is not currently enabled in the configuration UI. Configure it in the XML editor. See xref:connectors::streaming-strategies.adoc[].
```

+
* *Primary node only*
+

> Check this box to execute the *Listener* trigger on the primary node only when running in a cluster.

Reviewer 2: Select this option?

* *Redelivery policy*
+
This attribute is not currently enabled in the configuration UI. Configure it in the XML editor. See xref:http-documentation.adoc#RedeliveryPolicy[Redelivery Policy].
* *Connection*
** *Reconnection strategy*
+
This attribute is not currently enabled in the configuration UI. Configure it in the XML editor. See xref:http-documentation.adoc#reconnect[Reconnect] and xref:http-documentation.adoc#reconnect[Reconnect Forever].
* *Reponse*
+

> See xref:http-documentation.adoc#HttpResponseAttributes[HTTP Respoonse Attributes]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See xref:http-documentation.adoc#HttpResponseAttributes[HTTP Response Attributes].
```

Reviewer 2: (I don't think Vale is working 🤣 )

Author: Yeah, that was weird. I did catch that though after Vale didn't. heh

+
* *Error Response*
+

> An HTTP error response returns a status code for the error. 

Reviewer 2: Not parallel with the other bullets, but neither are a few others, so disregard.

+
** *Body*
+
The body of the error message.
** *Headers*
+
Headers to include in the error message.
** *Status code*
+
The status code of the error response, for example `500`.
** *Reason phrase*
+
Reason for the error, for example `Gateway Timeout` or `Internal Server Error`.

> For details about the Listener configuration attributes, see xref:http-documentation.adoc#listenerConfig[Listener Configuration].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For details about the *Listener* configuration attributes, see xref:http-documentation.adoc#listenerConfig[Listener Configuration].
```

> == Configuring the Attributes for Basic Security Filter

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Configure the Attributes for Basic Security Filter
```

The *Basic security filter* component authenticates received HTTP requests. Use this component after a *Listener* component in your integration flow.

. Click the *Basic security filter* component on the canvas.
+

> The configuration UI opens.

Reviewer 2: Necessary?

. In the *General* tab, configure the following attributes:
* *Realm*
+
Authentication realm.
+
*Security providers*
+
This attribute is not currently enabled in the configuration UI. Configure it in the XML editor. See xref:http-documentation.adoc#basicSecurityFilter[Basic Security Filter].
+
* *Attributes*
+

> HTTP Request attributes that come from an HTTP Listener source and check the `Authorization` header. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
HTTP Request attributes that come from an HTTP *Listener* source and check the `Authorization` header. 
```

Reviewer 2: "come from" -> provided by?

Reviewer 2: Do the attributes check the header?

> === Configuring Attributes for the HTTP Request

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Configure Attributes for the HTTP Request
```

Reviewer 2: (unless this should be nested under the security filter task)

> The Anypoint Connector for HTTP (HTTP Connector) *Request* operation enables you to consume an external HTTP service using the default `GET` method. Otherwise, you can choose what methods the operation accepts

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Anypoint Connector for HTTP (HTTP Connector) *Request* operation enables you to consume an external HTTP service using the default `GET` method. Otherwise, you can choose which methods the operation accepts.
```

To configure the attributes for HTTP *Request* in the Anypoint Code Builder UI:

. Click the *Request* component on the canvas.
+

> The configuration UI opens.

Reviewer 2: Necessary?

. In the *General* tab, configure the following attributes:

* *Method*
+

> Comma-separated list of allowed HTTP methods. To allow all methods, do not define this attribute.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Comma-separated list of allowed HTTP methods. To allow all methods, don't define this attribute.
```

Reviewer 2: Should this be consistent with line 18?

+
* *URI Settings*
** *URL*
+
URL to send the request to.
+
** *Path*
+

> Path for where to send the request.

Reviewer 2: I guess this is correct, but it sounds funny to me.

+
* *Request*
** *Body*
+
Body of the request response message.
+
** *Headers*
+
Headers to include in the response message.
+
** *URI Parameters*
+
URI parameters used to create the request.
+
** *Query Parameters*
+
Query parameters to include in the request.
+
* *Correlations ID*
+
Select an option for whether to include an outbound correlation ID in the request. 
+
. Select the *Advanced* tab to configure the following attributes:
+
* *Output MIME type*
+
Defines the format of the request.
+
* *Parameters*
+

> Add parameters to the request. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Adds parameters to the request. 
```

Reviewer 2: Pick imperative or declarative for consistency.

+
* *Output encoding*
+

> Select the encoding to transform the data to.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Selects the encoding to transform the data to.
```

+
* *Streaming Strategy*
+

> This attribute is not currently enabled in the configuration UI. Configure it in the XML editor. See xref:connectors::streaming-strategies.adoc[]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This attribute is not currently enabled in the configuration UI. Configure it in the XML editor. See xref:connectors::streaming-strategies.adoc[].
```

+
* *Connector Overrides*
** *Follow redirects*
+
Specifies whether or not to follow redirects.
+
** *Send body mode*
+

> Select an option to define whether the request contains a body. If you select *Auto*, the behavior is determined by the defined allowed HTTP methods (GET, HEAD, and OPTIONS does not send a body).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Specifies whether the request contains a body. Select *Auto* to specify that the behavior is determined by the defined allowed HTTP methods (GET, HEAD, and OPTIONS do not send a body).
```

Reviewer 2: (probably incorrect - ignore)

+
** *Request streaming mode*
+

> Select an option to define whether the request is sent using streaming.

Reviewer 2: Defines... to be consistent, or ignore if the "select an option" is not obvious.

+ 
** *Response timeout*
+

> Maximum time in milliseconds that the request element blocks the execution of the flow waiting for the HTTP response.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Specifies the maximum time in milliseconds that the request element blocks the execution of the flow waiting for the HTTP response.
```

Reviewer 2: (if parallelism is important)

+
* *Response*
** *Response validator*
+
Configures default error handling for the request. This attribute is not currently enabled in the configuration UI. Configure it in the XML editor. See xref:http-documentation.adoc#SuccessStatusCodeValidator[Success Status Code Validator] and xref:http-documentation.adoc#FailureStatusCodeValidator[Failure Status Code Validator].
* *Output*
** *Target Variable*
+

> Name of the variable on which the operation's output is placed.

Reviewer 2: Maybe the no-verb version is the better choice.

Author: Hopefully I caught them all.

+
** *Target Value*
+
An expression that's evaluated against the operation's output. The outcome of that expression is stored in the target variable.
+ 
* *Error Mappings*
+
This attribute is not currently enabled. 
+
* *Connection*
** *Reconnection strategy*
+
This attribute is not currently enabled in the configuration UI. Configure it in the XML editor. See xref:http-documentation.adoc#reconnect[Reconnect] and xref:http-documentation.adoc#reconnect[Reconnect Forever]. 

> == Configuring Attributes for Load Static Resource

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Configure Attributes for Load Static Resource
```

The static resource serves static content to use with HTTP. The request path is used to look up the resource. 

To configure the attributes for HTTP *Load static resource* in the Anypoint Code Builder UI:

. Click the *Load static resource* component on the canvas.
+

> The configuration UI opens.

Reviewer 2: Necessary?

+

> . In the *General* tab, configure the following attributes:

Reviewer 2: In a tab or on? I can't find the answer. Perhaps it doesn't matter.

Author: I always say in. I remember having this discussion and I don't remember what the conclusion was. I think you are on a page but in a window, on a screen and in the tab. My mind can be changed.

* *Resource base path*
+
The base path of the resource that serves up the content, for example, `/Users/maxthemule/` resources.

> * *Default file*

Reviewer 2: meta comment - these UI developers should be making these options init cap.

Author: YES.

+
The default file to serve when a directory is specified. The default is `index.html`.
+
* *Attributes*
+

> The HTTP request attributes coming from the HTTP Listener source to check the required resources. 

Reviewer 2: Again, the attributes check the resources? 
Or is it "to specify how to check"?

Author: So you define the attributes in the HTTP Listener and you define an attribute to check the Authorization header. I reworded. Hopefully it's more clear now.

+
. Select the *Advanced* tab to configure the following attributes: 
* *Output MIME type*
+

> Defines the format of the request.

Reviewer 2: See previous. 

Maybe just:
"Format of the request."

+
* *Parameters*
+
Add parameters to the request. 
+
* *Output encoding*
+
Select the encoding to transform the data to.
+
* *Output*
** *Target Variable*
+
Name of the variable that stores the operation's output.
+
** *Target Value*
+
Expression that evaluates the operation's output. The expression outcome is stored in the target variable.
+
* *Error Mappings*
+
This attribute is not currently enabled. 

> 

Reviewer 2: Do you need a 
== See Also
